so it's true
after years of wild speculation crazy
theories and dubious findings
it's finally been confirmed megalodon
the greatest shark of all time
has been spotted in the waters of the
south atlantic and now a group of
researchers are preparing for the
expedition of a lifetime
they'll need to locate catch and tag the
ocean predator to further study its
behavior first of all
they need a fishing boat large enough to
withstand the weight and lunge force of
such a huge shark
at the moment the only vessel close
enough to what they need
is osearch a former crabbing boat
refurbished to catch and tag great white
sharks
it's equipped with a sort of corral a
broad platform on the side
which the crew loads caught sharks these
beats are so massive
that researchers have to counterbalance
their boat with water when they haul a
shark on board
but although great whites are the
largest modern predatory sharks
they're still much smaller than the
megalodon a great white shark can grow
up to 20 feet in length and weigh over
two tons
the megalodon on the other hand reached
60 to 80 feet
and weighed a whopping 50 tons no
fishing vessel can hold such a weight
right now
so a different approach had to be
devised the researchers decided to
follow the lead of their colleagues in
indonesia
conservation international tags whale
shark these are the largest of the
modern shark species
they weigh up to 10 tons since they feed
on plankton just like baleen whales
they're not a threat to humans and they
sometimes get caught in fishing nets
that's when fishers call on scientists
to tag them
a team of divers gets down to the shark
and places a satellite tag on its dorsal
fin
then the shark is let loose the
megalodon hunt is going to be different
though
fossilized teeth of these gigantic
predators reach the size of seven inches
over three times larger than the teeth
of great whites
their weight also has to be taken into
account if the surviving mag somehow
gets into
a fishing net it'll probably just tear
it apart with its sheer mass
helping with its monstrous teeth
industrial fishing nets are usually made
of synthetic materials
such as nylon or polyester in this
particular case
something much sturdier has to be
deployed in the end
the scientist's choice fell on the
common shark fishing practice
a drift gill net it's a set of nets that
catch fish by the gills
and they drift near the surface or in
mid water just where
most sharks usually dwell the megalodon
doesn't like coal
so it won't dive too deep and will
probably be closer to the surface
where the water is warmer the big and
flexible net will entangle the shark
not letting it tear through and get away
there will also have to be a larger mesh
size
the mag is massive and will get caught
anyway
while smaller fish will swim through no
problem
next up is bait preparation to attract
smaller sharks
fishers usually catch their favored prey
it could be anything from
fish to crustaceans to lure in the
megalodon
researchers decide to catch a whole lot
of tuna it's among the largest atlantic
fish species
a big enough school of this fish will
probably get the attention of a giant
shark
finally there's a team of divers to
prepare the meg is by far
the largest predator in the world and
approaching it will be a risky
enterprise
the crew will have to get ready for a
struggle if the shark feels it can break
free
it will try its best to do so it takes
several weeks of going with shark
tagging teams
to train the staff to act quickly and
precisely
and at last the crew is ready to go
the boat aptly named the mega search
is a hundred foot gill netter a steel
vessel packing over 250 tons of dead
weight
there's nothing on board but the
necessary equipment the crew of 12
people
and provisions for the voyage the boat
departs from cape town in south africa
and goes straight west to where the
megalodon was spotted
after a full day of sailing the
researchers arrive to the spot
the weather is fine the waters are clear
and the forecast says there shouldn't be
any storms coming their way in the next
few days
they drop the sea anchor to stay in
place and prepare the neck
it's hidden under the deck and it takes
half the hands on board to deploy it
when the net is down and one of its ends
is attached to the stern
the mega search starts moving the net
goes on for a full mile
that should be enough for the big catch
soon after they've deployed the net
the crews see another boat approaching
that's their hired fishers coming in
with a bait
they've hauled a lot of tuna and picked
the largest ones to lure the mag
the team drops several nets off their
bait on both sides of the gill net
no matter which side the shark will
approach from it will certainly get
entangled
and now they have only to wait
as the night falls only several hands
remain on deck to watch the sea
hours pass and there's no movement in
the net
the mesh is large enough for even the
great whites to pass through
so if the net moves the crew will know
it's either a whale
or the megalodon the first night is
uneventful though
the net is still drifting as it had and
some of the crew went to check the bait
all still there that's suspicious
normally other big predators would come
by and try to eat such a tempting bit of
food
but none came this night it's as if they
were afraid of something
that gives the scientists hope if the
ocean is so quiet
there should be something scaring off
other predators
the second night comes and begins just
like the previous one
silent but then after a few hours
the lookouts notice strange movements of
the gill net
it's shaking and thrashing as if
something big is in there
desperately trying to get out the
lookouts sound the alarm and wake
everyone up
the most difficult part begins the
diving team set out in two light
motorboats
and seek the place where most of the
shaking occurs
in a couple of minutes they find it the
net is pulled taut
something huge is caught in it still
they can't be quite sure it's their
chase yet
the water is dark and they can't see
anything the divers have their gear on
already
and the team leader gives the command to
dive and as they submerge
they see they've hit the jackpot it is
the megalodon
the enormous shark is at least 50 feet
in length
and it's eaten through one of the bait
nets as it went to the second one
it got entangled in the gill net and was
now struggling madly to get out
the net proved strong enough to keep it
in though and has already swaddled the
shark
it has nowhere to go but keeps trying to
get away
the divers stay at a safe distance and
wait normally even great whites stop
fighting and stay still when they
realize they're trapped
and the luck is on the diver's side the
meg
finally stops thrashing the divers
carefully approach the shark from up and
behind
it can sense them but it doesn't move as
other divers prepare the tranquilizers
just in case
the one with the satellite tag comes
closer to the giant's back
delicately the diver places the tag on
the shark's dorsal fin
it's self-attaching and can withstand a
lot of pressure
the mag doesn't react the diver slowly
backs away
and the rest come closer to do the last
part of the task
cut the net off the megalodon the divers
have underwater cutters ready
they consume oxygen from their tanks and
can cut through metal
so the net is as easy as pot still
they go about carefully not to scare the
monstrous shark
quickly they free both sides and go
above to signal for the main boat to
start tugging the neck
the meg is now entangled in a much
smaller piece of net
and is feeling freer the divers swiftly
move towards the boats
but throw a last glance toward the beast
it's starting to throw off the net
and is already halfway through the team
go
up their job is done the motorboats
start off towards the fishing vessel
and as they go the teams see a huge
dorsal fin appear above the water a
satellite tag is attached to it
the fin quickly chases the boats and for
a second the divers think it's over for
them
but then it turns back and goes
underwater
there's still tuna waiting for it and
now
the scientists can finally learn more
about the greatest ocean predator
in history
you